### Introduction ###

The eXtremeTable will either handle parameters completely or not at all. The default is completely, meaning all parameters passed to a JSP that contains an eXtremeTable will be stored and passed along as you do the filtering, sorting and pagination. Usually this is the effect you need, however, there are times when you need to only allow specific parameters in to the eXtremeTable. I like to think of this as locking down the eXtremeTable and is accomplished by setting the autoIncludeParameters attribute on the table to false.

```
 <ec:table 
   items="presidents"
   action="${pageContext.request.contextPath}/presidents.run" 
   autoIncludeParameters=”false”
   >
   ...
 </ec:table>
```

Even when the table is locked down you can still include some of the parameters if needed. Simply use the Parameter (Tag). For instance, to include the foo parameter then do this:

```
 <ec:table 
   items="presidents" 
   action="${pageContext.request.contextPath}/presidents.run" 
   autoIncludeParameters=”false”
   >
   <ec:parameter name=”foo” value=”${param.foo}”/>
   ...
 </ec:table>
```

Now all the parameters are locked down (or out) of the eXtremeTable, but the foo parameter will be passed around as you filter, sort, and page.

Note: Because the eXtremeTable is a form component it is typically better to put the parameters as hidden input fields using the Parameter (Tag) instead of the action. In fact if you do a GET instead of a POST the browser will not even submit anything after the ? mark on the action. If you seem to be having problems first check to see if the hidden fields are generated by viewing the html source.

### Converting Values ###
The Parameter feature is even better as it supports Arrays, Lists, String and any other java object with a toString() that can be converted to a String array, such as a Number.
